---
id: Meeting_2024-07-09
aliases: []
tags: []
---
# Note:
- Recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5orJTSDwU6g
- Misc links at the end are from the chat.
- [Previous Meetings here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLWLcqZLzY8u9bAnrqjk5j589fuQtptwUQ)
# Agenda
- Upgrading Java
- Heidi Howard's Build Date [github](https://github.com/tlaplus/tlaplus/issues/771)

# Community Update
## [[1718259629-KYZK|Federico_Ponzi]]'s Wiki
- Little documentation
- difficult to navigate resources
- We need a Wiki: demo: http://federicoponzi.github.io/tlaplus-wiki
    - Current Resources
    - How to start contributing
    - How to generate a state graph
    - Content will be provided by community
- What do you need from the foundation? Money? Hosting?
    - github wiki could be an option (FP has never seen a successful one)
    - Hillel Wayne: Do we prioritize teaching or consolidating references?
        - FP: Community will decide, let's get started and figure it out as we go.
    - [[1718259437-DAMR|Markus Kuppe]]
        - The Linux Foundation offers infrastructure to host, we should explore this
        - Github has a high barrier to entry, which makes it hard to handle small commits. 
    - [[Andrew_Helwer]]
        - Pine64 used to have a wiki system, but this became a target for spammers
        - Eventually was moved back to a github pull request 
        - [[1718259579-VABT|stephan_Merz]]: https://tlaplus.net was taken over by spam.
### Sam Miller
- Thank you for initiative over documentation
    - Do we need to standardize? Or should we prioritize getting started?
    - Stephan Merz: "We have to experiment before we find the ideal solution"
        - AH: Lean used funds to a commission a textbook
- AH: Apalache Wiki:
    - 
### Andrew Helwer
- Thinking of contributing to the proof system documentation

Hillel Wayne dispises markdown for documentation, but has realzied that unless a documentation is written in `.md`, people either won't contribute or will get it wrong.
- Markus Kuppe: What is the contribution license for the wiki? We need to make this clear from the beginning.
- FP: Does the linux foundation have a system in place to fight spam?
- MK: Maybe Linux Foundation has a method to help choose a license.
    - SM: Some things introduced to the wiki may have copyright protection, we need to be weary about re-hosting it.
- AH: Pull request contribution updates take a long time: It took 1 month for an "edit" to get into TLA+'s `???`

## Calvin Loncari
- Pull Request Reviews
- Diagnosed some Flakey tests (TODO: Get Links)
    - Andrew Parralelized tests a while back. This was good. made things faster.
- Recently proposed a style guide for new code
    - Contributers get distracted by weird coding styles in the repository
    - have not started writing
- AH: 
    - Likes the idea of enforcing a style guide on new files
        - CL: would like checker to be gentle, and not too overbearing for the user.
- MK: Strongly seconds that the style guide should be gentle, emphasizes need for "push-button" format IDE integration
    - AK: We should enforce tabs/spaces strongly (this recently became a problem with FP's push to `something_config.xml`)
## FP
- Nondeterminism in diameter report in TLC in Multi-worker mode
    - Added Generation of `HTML`... (cut out)
    - PlusCal Translation
    - Looking to upload `HTML` code-coverage report to github
## Markus Kuppe
- Make people aware of soundness bug in TLC that FP discovered
- https://github.com/tlaplus/tlaplus/issues/971
    - only happens when we check liveness properties using multiple workers or if multiple workers pop from the queue and a race condition occurs between the different workers with different diameters.
    - This bug has been there since ~2009
- All findings have been saved in the issue.
(Chris Newcombe): Can we send out a notification for soundness bugs?
    - MK: In the past we just fixed the bug asap
    - MK: Likelyhood of this bug is low, but this bug is harder to fix
    - CN: We should establish a standard procedure for soundness bugs. This is a useful use of the mailing list
    - SM: Raising awareness and being open about this raises confedence in the program.
    - MK: We don't quite know the scope of when this bug
## Sam Miller
- Coworkers are not working on complex distributed systems but are working on complex business logic and state machines. Can TLA+ model these systems?
    - HW: I have some clients that work on this. This works well for any type of concurrent system.
    - HW: Recently spoke at (DDD Europe) - ([blog post](https://www.hillelwayne.com/talks/ese/ddd/)) - thinks we could branch into domain modeling with TLA+
    - NC: Has tried to help non-distributed engineers work with state machines, but there aren't good introductions to this. Calvin wrote one in the Google Messaging groups
        - Leslie's paper on TLA+ in pictures with predicate action diagrams is useful
        - Someone has to write a tutorial with concrete examples on this topic.
        - SM: Has had success by modeling a system better than the client to catch bugs in UI paths. This is all aroudn business logics.
        - NC: Oracle, Interaction between Authentication and Authorization. What does "authorization of complex policies" acually mean? Amazon has also worked int this field.  This isn't a classic example, but is a high-value domain.
## CN
- Call for proposals for TLA Plus Foundation. Will work on that soon
- Sent a paper of SM's (Role Based Action Control) to security engineers at Oracle.
- Budget is limited
- "Alloy is a great gateway drug into formal methods"
    - Alloy 6, recent update, has support for temporal modeling
    - HW: Got email from Daniel Jackson saying they were trying to make temporal logic better.
- SHould a purpose of the TLA+ foudnation be to broaden the application of TLA to other domains?

## Markus Kuppe
- Unrelated: We shoudl think of If/Where a TLA+ Conference should be.
- SM: A good person to talk to is `(???)` who wrote a paper `(???)`

## Stephan Merz
- Call for proposals should be up soon.
- Community Meeting in Milano in September
    - 4 current contribution
    - If anyone wants to join, submit a 2 page abstract
    - Unable to join in august (won't have internet)
## Andrew Helwer
- Documentation updates were finally merged thanks to Markus and Calivn
- Did some work (wrt CN) for Role Based Access Control [here](https://goteleport.com/blog/z3-rbac/)
- Learning OCaml
### Issue
We have rolling builds of the tools.
- Heidi Howard would like to know when the build of the tools / commit was made.
- Should we put the build date or the commit date?
    - We should care about build reproducability, and only include the commit date.
    - Having the commit date is more semantically meaningful than the build date.
- Calvin L:
    - Other projects have (wrongly) assumed the existance of a `.git/`, but getting a build release from github does not include this folder.
        - AH: Do we have any information about the git status if we get the source release?
        - CL: No
        - AH: We can do a fallback system
        - MK: There is a reason things are the way they are. Changing this in TLC will make it inconsistent with what the ToolBox shows. Proprocessing Strings in `XML` files is not preferable, so he opted for nightly builds.
        - MK: What Heidi wanted is already there, it's just not printed in the banner. It's in the `TLA Tools Manifest File`, which includes build date and should include commit.
        - MK: THe reason it's not integrated in the file name is people can drop in the (???) job file without renaming it.
        - MK: Wants a clearer seperation between the toolbox and the command line tools.
        - MK: The Human assigned version number does not follow any semantic versioning
        - AH: It is not desireable to have the commit timestamp when you run (???)`TLC --version`

- MK: Find issue of "seperate tools from IDE". We need to figure out what this will look like.
    - MK: Others (including leslie) want the toolbox to be around as long as possible.
    - MK: Make toolbox obsolete by adding more features to VS Code Extension, so people volunteraly migrate over.

# Various Links
- https://www.hillelwayne.com/talks/ese/ddd/
- MK: https://github.com/pascalpoizat/fbpmn
- CN: https://groups.google.com/g/tlaplus/c/EO9ff0OBqtA/m/7aKEA8zxBAAJ
- MK: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0306437921000272
- SM: Takes Alloy and generates C# EntityFramework ORM code -- https://github.com/nanunintan/Alloy2Cs
