---
id: Meeting_2024-06-11
aliases: []
tags: []
---
- [[Gabriela_Moreira]]: 
    - Discussed [this package](https://github.com/bugarela/tla-input) that adds unicode support to emacs. She will likely continue working on it.
- [[Murat_Demirbas]]: 
Shared updates on a MongoDB Skunkworks project and mentioned someone starting as an intern at MongoDB.
    - See [this](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/tree/9ec1520b0f1dcd51d445ba0f4b2bba111896b9ff/src/mongo/tla_plus) repo
- [[Karolis_Petrauskas]]:
Discussed progress on a project with help from Stephan Merz and Damien Doligez, and raised questions about extending the Toolbox Protocol.
- [[Stephan_Merz]]:
Mentioned working on an internal proof and will provide updates in the future.
- [[Leslie_Lamport]]:
Finished a document on TLA+ and plans to share it after editing.
- [[Federico_P]]:
Contributed PRs and discussed an issue with nondeterminism in Diameter reported by TLC.
- [[Damien_D]]:
Working on reducing the backlog of pull requests and merging his own, also seeking help with a specific PR.
- [[Nathan]]:
Looking at proofs and contributing by helping with PR reviews.
- [[Neil_Penning]]:
Working on a PR related to liveness checking under symmetry reduction and planning to set up a meeting with someone.
- [[Andrew Helwer]]:
Working on several PRs, discussing universal test corpus, treating warnings as errors, and Unicode support in PlusCal.
- [[Igor Konnov]]:
Discussed topology and fault tolerance consensus, expressing frustration with long execution times.
- [[Julia_Ferraioli]]:
Working on website updates and contributor experience, aiming to grow the community and reduce workload on maintainers.
- [[Markus_Kuppe]]:
Discussed bus factor, contributor guidelines, decoupling tools from the toolbox, and improving development experience on TLC.

- Julia:
Discussed gaining trust in the open-source community and identifying opportunities to train people.
- Stephan:
Mentioned a call for something being up and will provide updates in the next meeting.
